+++
date = '2026-03-12T11:10:46+05:30'
draft = true
title = 'My First Blog'
+++

# First Reflection Blog

## Introduction
This is a reflection blog where I will be reflecting back on all those learinings that I had from start of the second semester. The name of the major course that I have this semester is *" Becoming a Reflective Information Scientists"*. As the name suggests, we in this course deal with datas, informations and try to derive usful insights and take decisions based on it. By now we are not learning any programming language this semester but I think we now are trying to build the foundations on which all the programming languages and information science courses will be grounded. I am now at the mid of this semester. As I move ahead with this course I will update all my learnings and experiences in the coming reflection blog.

## What I Learned
So first we started with the overview of the course where we actually knew what we were going to do the entire semester. We show some examples of representation of data. We show good data representation Vs bad data representation and how to identify and deal with bad data representation. Then from the next class onwards we actuall started a very interesting topic, the *DIKW model*. I personally found this topic very interesting because from here We had started learning some concepts of real world application. I leart how the *data chain* works, how it is taken by the  the tech companies and used to manipulate people(users). I learnt how apps like *Instagram, Facebook, Youtube, flipkart, Amazom* and all the social media application works. After the concepts were taught, the entire class was divided into certain groups. We had to decide one Social media application and then create a presentation on how that application work. We now had to apply the concepts learned to know how a social media platform work and how they use the users data to manipulate them. We were 4 memebers in our group and we had decided to work on Youtube. After doing full Research on it we were finally ready with our presentation. Now one of us had to go in front of class and present the presentation, and I took the chance. I explained the entire class about how Youtube works, how it takes user's data and recommend contents and adds based on the activity of the user. It was really fun doing it. I would say, till now that was my best learning experience. Next class, we played with *2011 census data* where we looked at *Educational Level of Bangalore by age and sex for population age 7 years and above*. After going through the data we tried plotting some graphs. The conclusion of the the census was that as we move towards higher age, literacy rate decreases. Meaning the older people were less literate than the younger population. Then in the next class We learned some interestng facts about *How many variables can one person understand?* The facts were really captivating. This way we wind up our learning for the first unit.

## Challenges
During the course of Unit 1, I didn't face much difficulties. Learning math challenges me and because there was not much math in the first unit, there wasn't any such difficulty. But still whenever I used to come across graphs and large set of datas, I used to feel uncomfortable. But slowly I have come to understand that I will have to be friend with maths because it is not going to leave my hand throughout my Information Science career. And I am getting used to it now so just chill. yeah!

## Reflection
Being an Information Sciene student feels greet to me. I always dreamt to be a computer science student, so I can earn lot of money and enjoy my life. *'Becoming a Reflective Information Scientist'* course has given me a direction to data driven world. Earlier I used to feel nervous with big numbers but now it fells fascinating to me. now I am loving my journey with Information Science. I also like to genuinely aprreciate our Instructor. She has a very good pace of teaching and I feel like she truley understand her students.

## Conclusion
Overall, the first unit of this course has given me a strong introduction to how data and information work in the real world. I learned how data can be represented in different ways and how proper representation helps in understanding *patterns* and drawing *meaningful conclusions*. Concepts like the **DIKW model** and working with **census data** helped me see how information can be used to understand society and make decisions. This course has also helped me become more comfortable with *numbers, graphs, and data analysis*. Although mathematics used to make me feel uneasy, I am gradually developing confidence and endurance in dealing with it. I believe that these foundational concepts will be very useful as I continue my journey in Information Science and explore more advanced topics in the future.

## Gratitude
I would like to express my sincere gratitude to our instructor for guiding us throughout this course. Her clear explanations and engaging teaching style made the concepts easy to understand. I also thank my classmates and group members for their collaboration during the activities and presentations. Their support made the learning experience more enjoyable and meaningful. Thank You.